It's an honor. Dr. Thomas Seaffreed,
welcome to the Ketones and Coffee
podcast.
>> Oh, thank you very much, Lawrence. It's
very nice to be here today.
>> It is nice to finally grace your
presence here on the podcast. How are
you? How are things? What are you
excited about today?
>> Well, today happens to be a very nice
day, sir. Very low humidity. Might get
up about 85. I'll go over to the gym
after this, relax, do a few things, and
we have a faculty meeting this afternoon
outside. So, that should be interesting.
>> Yeah, very exciting. pretty exciting you
know I've had a lot of many interviews
on my show but really I am star struck
by someone's presence a little hiccup on
the beginning there but you know with my
connection issues but solely sometimes
you know your impact on other people's
lives I mean the topic we are about to
discuss today sir your own personal
mission your book cancer as a metabolic
disease as I was you know examining the
reviews about the book. Countless
individuals has reported lifechanging
effects and a lot of them say life
saving. If anyone of you someone dear to
you is struggling with cancer or maybe
your you yourself this episode is for
you. Sir Thomas Freed, the word cancer
itself does something to us that no
other word can. You know, it's it's one
of the most devastating disease known to
man. The current research tells us that
some of us are genetically predisposed
to developing cancer. And we all know
someone that is has been affected by
this disease. But you offer a new
theory, one that doesn't need
chemotherapy, radiation, even surgery
all at once. Right. And we got a lot to
discuss here. You say cancer is
primarily a mitochondria metabolic
disease that offers hope. I mean first
of all what has led you to the research
specifically moving away from the theory
that it's not a genetic disease but
rather a metabolic disease. Tell us that
story.
>> Okay. So yeah. Well, that certainly
would be a paradigm change for sure, but
you have to look at all of the facts and
evidence and then you have to there's
sever several things you well required
me to know before I could suggest that
the paradigm is incorrect and as you
said I have a degree in genetics and
biochemistry.
You have to have a a a foundational
understanding of evolutionary biology
and and you have to be familiar with the
original work of Otto Warberg. So, and
you need to do the research experiments
yourself to test ideas directly in your
lab. You don't rely on what others say.
You do the experiments yourself and you
see what the results happen to be. And
that's what we do. So like everyone
almost everyone I thought cancer was a
genetic disease. I mean we had this in
all of our research lectures that we get
whether they're departmental seminars
whether in the textbooks of biology cell
biology or biochemistry. You can pick up
any one of them and they'll say that
cancer is a genetic disease. And then of
course on the national cancer institute
website at the NIH it says cancer is a
genetic disease. who am I right
>> to question to question the prevailing
view the dogma the silent assumption but
I I started seriously questioning that
when I started to see research in my own
lab that treating animals that have
tumors with calorierestricted diets
cause significant reduction in the rate
of growth the inflammation around the
tumor and many other and and the
increased death of tumor cells
and it and we we we we linked that to a
reduction in blood glucose levels. And I
thought this was a great observation.
And then I realized that Otto Warberg
had made similar suggestions in the
1920s and 30s publishing a seminal
review paper in 1956 clearly saying that
cancer was a metabolic problem not a
genetic problem.
problem is the field had already spent
billions of dollars hunting for genes in
cancer and there's no question that many
many most cancer cells have genetic
mutations that we're not this is a a
fact cancer cells most of them have
genetic mutations but the question is
are those mutations responsible for the
disregulated cell growth or is it some
problem with energy metabolism
>> and of course the the geneticists say
the the abnormal energy metabolism is
caused by the gene mutations. On the
other hand, that's hard to understand
how gene mutations could actually
influence the amount of ATP energy
within the cell because that was a
mitochondrial driven process. So it
turns out that you know I started to
look at this and do a deep dive on
Warberg's theory and it turns out that
Warberg said all cancers initiate from
an in insufficiency of oxidative
phosphorilation linked or coupled to a
compensatory energy through substrate or
I should say fermentation. Fermentation
is energy without oxygen. So and and we
know this everybody knows this. So okay
we have gene mutations and we have tumor
cells arising or can live without oxygen
and you know it's very interesting I
always tell everybody this if you take
cyanide you know with cyanide is a very
toxic poison cyanide kills people very
quickly animals any any any organism
that's using oxidative phosphorilation
breathing air to get energy cyanide
blocks that and shuts it down and and
will kill very very quickly can warberg
said a long time ago and we validated
what he said. Cancer cells live in
cyanide. Can live in the presence of
cyanide. That tells me right there
they're not using oxygen for energy and
they also grow in the absence of oxygen.
This is hypoxia. So cancer cells well
how are they growing and living without
using oxygen as a source of like we
breathe oxygen in and we generate
energy. We exhale CO2 the breakdown
products. These damn cancer cells aren't
are are living without without oxygen.
That's very interesting.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ ketoforcancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rockermeer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperaric
oxygen protocols. So, take a look around
at school.com/ keto for cancer.
>> So, and it turns out Warberg said
because their mitochondria are
defective. And people say, oh no,
Warberg was wrong. Most of the field
says because cancer cells consume oxygen
also
>> but the problem with the cancer cells
they're taking consuming oxygen but
they're not using it for energy. This is
what what we found which then throws a
stick in the spoke of the field and then
we went back and we found some papers
saying they can't find any mutations in
some cancer cells. Well, that that's not
consistent with the somatic mutation
theory of cancer. So then they said the
field of course says oh well not all
mutations are causing cancer only the
driver mutations cause cancer. These are
the really important ones. So new
research now is telling us that we have
driver mutations and all through our
body that never in cells that never form
cancer. So that's inconsistent again
with the theory. Every major cancer
we've looked at has damage in number
structure and function of mitochondria.
That seems to be the commonality. And
then you say, well, where did all these
mutations come from? And the answer is
when oxygen comes into a tumor cell, not
using it for energy, they form reactive
oxygen species called these are reactive
radicals and they damage DNA, RNA, and
proteins. So the mutations that we see
in cancer cells that the field is
constantly targeting or looking at are
all downstream effects. So we spent
billions and billions of dollars in the
cancer genome projects with the hope
that we would find mutations causing
disregulated growth and we could target
those mutations and therefore bring a
new realm to cancer management. Well
that has been an almost complete
failure. Um it hasn't worked. So
consequently we persist in treating
cancer patients with toxic poisonous
chemicals, radiation and surgical
mutilation because the promise of the
genomic theory, the sematic mutation
theory being finding targeted mutation
has not come to pass. And that's because
cancer is not a genetic disease.
>> It's a mitochondrial metabolic. What
does that mean?
>> All cancer cells must get energy from
fermentation, which is energy without
oxygen. So the question then what do
they what what's driving this
fermentation energy and we and others
have found it's glucose and glutamine
the simp the sugar glucose and the amino
acid glutamine are both fermented to
generate ATP energy for the disregulated
growth and they can't burn fatty acids
or ketone bodies. Cancer cells cannot
live on fatty acids or ketone bodies in
the absence of glucose and glutamine. So
that tells us clearly how to manage
cancer without toxicity. problem is the
rest of the world has not opened their
eyes or understood what I have just
>> simple you've you've explained that to
me within five minutes and I I could
understand it's it's simple and there's
evidence there and it is you know I feel
like the inconsistency you found in the
research drove you to seeking answers
but I want to know why were you
examining caloric restrictions versus
the progression of cancer cancer or
growth of cancer. What what what
initiated that?
>> Well, we found we worked in the field of
epilepsy for years and we knew and we
knew that ketogenic restricted keto and
I was I showed the folks that the
ketogenic diet was working in kill in
children predominantly because it was
lowering blood sugar and when we were
lowering and and the kids would eat
ketogenic diets and their epilepsy would
go away. Why did the epilepsy go away?
And the answer is because we reduce
blood sugar and elevated ketones. And
you can see a child that might be
managed without having seizures. We'll
drink a a glass of sweet orange juice or
something like that and within within 30
minutes they'll explode into an
epileptic seizure and their blood sugar
shoots up and then they explode into an
epileptic seizure. So it was clear uh to
us that the management of epileptic
epilepsy in children using these
ketogenic diets was related to the
lowering of glucose and the elevation of
ketones. But the mechanism in the brain
by which lowering glucose and elevating
ketones blocks electrical excitability
in parts of the brain. The the the
molecular mechanisms for that are still
not completely known. However, the
cancer we know exactly what's going on
very close to the understanding more
completely than than epilepsy for sure.
When you lower the blood sugar, cancer
cells need fermentable fuels. Glucose is
a prime fermentable fuel. And therefore,
you're shutting down one part of their
energy metabolism. The other part, which
wasn't clear at the beginning to us how
that was working, was the glutamine
fermentation, the fermentation of the
amino acid glutamine. And Warberg knew
nothing about that either. And
therefore, he ran into a lot of
controversy and a lot of
misunderstanding because he couldn't
figure out where some of these cancer
cells, even though you lower blood sugar
really low, they were still hanging on
and still growing. Well, where are they
getting their energy from? And and he
didn't know about the glutamine issue.
>> And and now we we're the ones everybody
knew glutamine. They all thought it was
respired. We're now showing that the
glutamine is fermented, which means
getting glutamine, the energy out of
glutamine without oxygen. That's the big
breakthrough in the cancer field as far
as I can see which Warberg did not know
about. And right now the 90 95 or 99% of
the cancer field also cannot understand
that.
>> They either can't understand it or they
can't believe it. Yet we have evidence
now. We just published a major paper on
this and my my colleague Christo
Shinopoulos from Sim Weiss University,
he has documented this in cancer cells.
So we have clearly now we know how
cancer cells are getting energy for the
disregulated growth. So all we have to
do is target the availability of the
energy and you can shut down these tumor
cells for the most part.
>> We'll talk about glutamine there in a
second. I want to break this down for
our listeners here. I want to talk about
metabolic your this metabolic theory
that we have here. Obviously there's a
lot of evidence showing that you know
showing a lot of promise. A lot of
people talking about how you know this
is a life-changing transformation.
Right. Just just reading your book
cancer as a metabolic disease. You
outline the data on that book from 2013
2017 the percentage increase for cancer
deaths is greater than the increase for
newer cases and you call it a failure of
of met monumental proportions. I mean,
something is off and and you you found a
way to to finally, you know, seek
answers and, you know, basically you're
seeing we're losing the war and your
research shows that that there is a
fundamental misunderstanding of what the
nature of the disease is, right? And
you're basically saying we got it all
wrong. What cancer really originates
from and what can be argued about it is
being the reason why it's only getting
worse. But I wanted to ask you how did
they get it wrong if the research seems
conclusive of the evidence that is it's
a genetic disease right it's when you
read the research papers it it it seems
very conclusive right what made you
challenge the conventional wisdom there
I know we talked about you starting from
uh you know your studies with epilepsy
right and and and you connected that to
how the our understanding of where
cancer originates from. Did they get it
or wrong? I I want I want to know their
perspective and how are they not open to
this idea?
Well, those are very important questions
and they go to the core of sci of how
science advances and I I look at it very
similar to the Capernac revolution when
for 1800 years scientists and
astronomers thought that the earth was
the center of the of the solar system.
The work of Aristotle and Tlemi and
other astronomers at that time could not
completely explain how plants and
celestial bodies the their their motion
through the heavens was always
challenged and the field and the systems
kept doing more and more studies to try
to better better calculate how how
heavenly bodies were moving. But there
was always some problem that could not
explain clearly how everything was
moving. But they persisted and persisted
and persisted for 1,800 years in doing
these experiments that were uh never
able to completely define this until
until Capernacus realized that if we if
the earth is in fact moving and travels
around the sun together with the other
planets, you could actually explain the
mathematics and you could explain the
movement. We're in a very similar
situation here with cancer. The field
has become indoctrinated and dogmatic in
and believing that that mutations are
the origin of the disregulated cell
growth. The strongest evidence to say
that cannot be the case is the nuclear
mitochondrial transfer experiments which
I've uh published in my book and I wrote
a paper on this specifically showing the
field that if you take the nucleus out
of a tumor cell that has all the
mutations in the nucleus that are
supposed to drive the disregulated
growth and you transplant that nucleus
into a into a a non-cancerous cytoplasm
containing normal mitochondria. the the
the results the offspring of those cells
have normal growth. They don't have
disregulated growth even though the the
mutations in the nucleus still there are
there. On the other hand, if you if you
take the norm the nucleus from a normal
cell and transplant it to a cytol a
tumor cell cytoplasm with abnormal
mitochondria, the offspring of those is
is neoplastic disregulated cell growth.
So clearly the origin of disregulated
cell growth resides in the cytoplasm
with the mitochondria, not in the
nucleus with the genetic mutations.
That's the strongest evidence. That's
the same power of of Capernicus putting
putting the sun in the center of the
solar system. It it's it's it's that
powerful. Now, of course, what happened
when Capernacus did that? Galileo
immediately started to use the telescope
to confirm Capernacus's theory and was
house arrested. Guillodano Bruno, an
Italian scientist, was burned at the
stake for challenging the Catholic
Church's dominance over what we should
think and what we should know. I'm
getting back. So, how is it possible
that the cancer field, a multibillion
dollar industry, fails to recognize that
their efforts to manage cancer is
incomplete because they think it's a
genetic disease? They're locked into the
same dogmatic view. How could they all
be wrong? confirmation bias says they
cannot be wrong. If the if the federal
governments of the United States,
Canada, Germany, Japan, England, all of
these guys are saying cancer is a
genetic disease, who the hell am I to
come and and challenge them. All I did
was look at the data. I I let them
disprove what I'm saying. It's not me.
They have to try to disprove the
evidence that's clearly shows that
cancer cannot be a genetic disease. Yes,
cancer cells have mutations. We all know
that. But they are not the cause,
they're the effect of the damage to the
respiration. So once you realize then
you can move forward with therapies and
treatments that are non-toxic and
powerfully effective to manage it that
because you're now doing what they can't
live without fermentation fuels. That's
the they can't live without that. So you
just have to target that. And there's no
clinical trials. There's no treatment
programs or any of this that's testing
what I'm saying because who is going to
test this? The pharmaceutical companies
that are making billions of dollars on
drugs based on the sematic mutation
theory, all those imunotherapies. Who's
going to test this? The hospitals,
they're locked into making great revenue
from radiation and chemo and all this
other stuff. who wants to test a theory
that could potentially reduce revenue
generation for the majority of these
institutions grants to the to the
scientists from the the so what we're
saying so you have to what we did what
people do in the past is you ignore what
I'm saying that's the easiest thing and
and the simple oh it hasn't been
repeated it has been repeated numerous
times you should choose not to look at
the data
>> oh and no clinical trials oh why don't
you do a clinical trial after you train
train the folks oh we can't do that
everything is we can't we can't we can't
okay so when you get the deniers and the
so noosayers and all those other guys
out of the way those guys just get out
of the way let us move forward and we'll
be able to I'm not saying we can study
if you take away the two fuels that
drive the disregulated growth now you
have to play this in the in the living
system of course and we've worked out
the press pulse therapeutic strategy
which adopts that concept to treating
cancer patients Yes.
>> So, and it's working on the on the
people that are doing it in the isolated
places where they do it. Most of them,
not all of them, most of them get do
much better. The cancer goes either
becomes much reduced in rate of growth
or it goes into some sort of stabilized
state and sometimes might go away at
least for the the the the short term.
But we've people are there. I don't know
how many years. Pablo Kelly's out 10
years now. His cancer never went away. A
brain tumor. He's had three surgeries on
a glyopblastoma, but he's still alive.
You know, you don't usually live but a
year or two with that and he's out 10
years now. So, did was he cured? No. Is
he living a hell of a lot longer than
everybody else? You're damn right he is.
>> And it's a classic. They're not looking
in the right place. Right. From your
research on the cancer as a metabolic
disease in your view of this disease
where it originates as a metabolic
dysfunction.
How does that lead to the development
and progression of cancer now starting
as a metabolic dysfunction where where
does that
now we've identified where it's actually
originating but how does that lead to
the development of cancer?
>> Yeah. So let's look at the the
provocative agents that we all know are
are carcinogenic,
>> right? The term chemical carcinogen. Why
do they call a chemical a carcinogen?
Because it causes cancer. Okay. asbestos
and we found you know various tetra
these various chemicals you know we have
we call them carcinogens so I went
through all the list of carcinogens and
every one of them damages the fun
structure and function of the
mitochondria the organel responsible for
generating energy through oxygen so in
the case of a carcinogen what happens is
the energy coming out of the
mitochondria is compromised and in order
for the cell to stay alive it has to
compensate with upreg regulation of
substrate level phosphorilation which is
an alternative uh source to oxidative
phosphorilation. I don't want to get too
complicated on this. It's just a
fermentation metabolism. Okay. Now what
is what controls the differentiated
quasin state? Suppose suppose you have
your liver for example, we'll use that
as an organ and it's exposed to chemical
carcinogen and all of a sudden you see a
population of cells growing out of
control in the liver. What it what
caused those normal liver cubuidal cells
let's say to start draw growing out of
control.
>> So when you look at them you find that
the mitochondria are dysfunctional and
damaged and they're fermenting. Okay.
How did that happen? How did the
chemical carcinogen cause a bunch of
cells in the liver to start growing out
of control? So what is the organel that
controls the stable and differentiated
state? And it's the mitochondria. The
mitochondria control the cell cycle. So
the normal metabolically stable
homeostatic state of the cell is
controlled by the mitochondria. That
organel controls the cell cycle. Now
when that organel becomes corrupted the
cell falls back on a fermentation
mechanism fermentation. Now you have to
real this is why you need to know
evolutionary biology before oxygen came
into the onto the atmosphere of our
planet was completely anox. There was no
oxygen in the original beginning earth
of the earth two two and a half billion
years ago right two and a half billion
years ago we had cells that were develop
that were growing on the planet from all
these organisms single single cell
organisms. Everybody was fermenting. All
those cells were fermenting and they
were growing in a disregulated way.
Disregulated cell growth with a
fermentation metabolism. The cancer cell
is going back and expressing the same
characteristics as these original cells
that existed on a fermentation. Why are
they growing out of control? Because the
organel that's supposed to control their
growth now is dysfunctional. And the
cells fall back on these ancient
pathways of fermentation. And when you
look at cancer, every major cancer is
throwing out massive amounts of lactic
acid and suxenic acid, the waste
products of a fermentation metabolism
becomes clear. So these cells are doing
nothing more than falling back on
ancient metabolic pathways that existed
before oxygen came into the atmosphere.
These pathways exist in all of our
cells, but they're very subdued. They
don't play a big role because we're
breathing air. But but when we stop when
we when our mitochondria become
chronically damaged, not acutely dam
acutely damaged, the cell will die.
You'll never get a cancer cell. But if
it but if the cell has the opportunity
to upregulate fermentation, it loses
growth control and starts growing out of
control. Now that's chemical carcinogen.
What about ankcogenic viruses like
hepatitis virus, papilloma viruses? They
do the same thing. They chronically
damage mitochondria. What about
radiation? Radiation we know can cause
cancer. Well, that chronically damages
mitochondria. What about intermittent
hypoxia? What about all of these things?
What about the BA1? What about those
genetic risk factors that we hear about
P-53, Bracka 1? These are inherited risk
factors, right? So, they damage the
structure and function of the
mitochondria leading to disregulated
cell growth either in the breast or some
other organ. Right? The liver bracker
uh mutations that you hear about, but
they damage mitochondria. If the bracka
one doesn't damage mitochondria that
that person can have the mutation and
never develop never develop the cancer.
It only happens when the mitochondria
develop. Cancer is very unlikely to
occur if the mitochondria can remain
functional and and normal. Let's put it
that way.
>> So normal a normal generation of energy
through oxidative phosphorilation is
normal functioning mitochondria. When
that becomes compromised, they start to
funk uh ferment and they lose their
control, their growth control, and they
grow out of control. And what's the
energy? It's a fermentation energy. What
do you mean? They're using they're using
ancient pathways. Well, what's driving
those ancient pathways? Glucose and
glutamine. How do you know? Because we
tested it all. We we interrogated all
the other fuels and glucose and
glutamine are the two prime fuels that
are responsible for the disregulated
growth. Why? Because the mitochondria
are no longer functional. So therefore,
they must ferment. So this is and so you
feed them ketones and feed them fatty
acids. They can't use ketones and fatty
acids. Why? Because these fun these
fuels are non they can't be used for
fermentation. They're non-fermentable
fuels. But the normal cells in the body
can burn ketones and fatty acids. So we
just transition the whole body to
ketones and fatty acids. Tumor cells
can't use them. And then you come in and
you target the glucose and glutamine
simultaneously and start slaughtering
these tumor cells without toxicity. M
>> how does that sound
>> good? I mean two more cells cannot use
ketones, right? But are actually
preferred by the healthy cells. So
you're killing off cancers
>> and healing the body at the same time
basically.
>> That's right. That's right. And when you
use metabolic ketogenic metabolic
therapies,
>> you not only get rid of we the people
that we see oftentimes have type two
diabetes, they're obese, they have all
kinds of other hypertension, all this
kind of stuff. A lot of that stuff goes
away along with the cancer because
they're all suffering from a chronic
problem, the chronic energy disruption
and in some kinds that causes
disregulated cell growth. Other times it
causes type 2 diabetes, hypertension,
all these cardiovascular disease,
dementia. It's unbelievable. So, as long
as you can keep your mitochondria
healthy, you can avoid a lot of the
chronic diseases. The pro the problem is
our diet and lifestyle today often stand
in the way as an obstacle to prevent us
from getting cancer in the first place.
So we we but you know most people want
to know what are you going to do for me
after I get the tumor? I I know I should
have been a good boy and a good girl and
I should have never done what I did but
I got cancer. Now what are you going to
do for me? Now we have to target the
glucose and glutamine and transition
your whole body off to therapeutic
ketosis.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So that that's so you're
saying like cancer feeds on glucose,
right? The idea which is one of the
reasons why extended fasting has become
so popular with cancer patients as an
alternative treatment too. How about how
about DNA mutation? How does that fit in
the in the theory?
>> Yeah. Well, when the when the cancer if
the mitochondria become defective
>> and they take in oxygen, the oxygen
forms ROS, reactive oxygen species,
these are hydroxide ions, super oxides.
These are damaging radicals. They cause
the mutations in the DNA. So the
mutations in the DNA, what is the
provocative agent causing the mutations
in the DNA? And that's Ross. Ross are
carcinogenic and mutagenic. Hundreds and
hundreds of papers in the scientific
literature showing that Ross R O are
carcinogenic and mutagenic. Okay,
carcinogenic and mutagenic. So where and
that produce where do they produce? They
produce and damaged respiration damaged
mitochondria. Dysfunctional mitochondria
that are insufficient in oxidative
phosphorilation form these ros. The ross
then damage the DNA causing the
mutations that everybody's all excited
to see and chase. But they're all
downstream effects of the damage to the
oxidative phosphorilation. So, so, but
and how are the cells growing? They're
growing like crazy with all these DNA
mutations. So, so what what's driving
their anyway? How are they growing with
all these mutations? Because they're
fermenting. What are they fermenting?
Glucose and glutamine. Why don't we take
away the glucose and glutamine and we
can kill the cell regardless of the
mutations they have in the nucleus. And
that's exactly what we see.
>> Okay. So, we know how to take away
glucose. How do we take away glutamine?
>> We have to use we have to be very
strategic. Because glutamine is an is
considered a non-essential amino acid,
but for the cancer cell in the immune
system, it's an essential amino acid.
Yes. So, you have to be strategic
dosage, timing, and scheduling. You
can't go in there as an ignoramis as a
bull in a china shop and just try to
take away everybody's glutamine. You
strategically target it and then pull
off. Target and pull off while you keep
the choke hold on the glucose. We don't
need glucose. Glucose, we can replace
glucose with ketone bodies. Um there was
an interesting study some years ago by
by the scientist Drenik. He took
morbidly obese guys um and he fasted
them for 21 days uh where their blood
sugar went down and their ketones went
way up and then he injected them with
insulin. Can you believe this?
>> So whatever little glucose was in their
bloodstream it kind of disappeared. It
went down to 9 milligrams per deciliter
which everybody would consider death.
0.5 mill. I mean this is like barely
detectable. These guys are walking
around fine. No cognitive decline, no
abnormalities. And and and it was
because the brain and the rest of the
cells switched over over to fatty acids
and ketone. Brain burns fatty ketone
bodies. Liver can burn fatty acids. So
it shows you how low you can get
glucose. And then the normal cells of
your body will take up what little
glucose might be available starving
indirectly starving the cancer cell of
its glucose. And then but it can still
hang on because it might suck down a
little bit and ferment a little bit of
the glutamine. So then you just pulse
the glutamate with glutamine drugs. And
some of these drugs are parasites,
antiarasite drugs. Turns out that the
cancer cells and the parasites use a
common metabolic pathway. So if you kill
parasites, you can kill cancer cells
with the same drug. It's not this stuff
is unbelievable.
>> I mean, if the field knew what I just
said, we would be dropping the death
rate of these cancer patients
significantly within a very short period
of time. The problem is what I just told
you. either doesn't want to be
recognized, it's too complicated, or I
don't want to know about it. You know
who wants to know about what I'm saying?
The cancer patients want to know what
I'm saying.
>> But you go to the oncologists and they
have never heard of anything that I had
just said. And many of them don't even
want to know about it. They think
glucose has no role in cancer. They
think fasting has no role in cancer.
Never heard of the glutamine issue. They
they say, "Oh, no. Eat infomell, eat
candy, and all this kind of stuff." I
mean, this tells you how far out of out
of out of out of touch the oncology
community is. And these are good folks.
They've just been they've just been
trained the wrong way. They want to help
their patients, not hurt their patients,
but they've just don't uh haven't had
this information in their training. And
once they do, we're going to see a
monster ch, very rapid change in the
outcome.
>> I mean, you did call it the future of
cancer treatment, right?
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. It will be
the new standard of care.
>> It's just it just has to be understood
and your job is to sometimes these
podcasts push the information out where
where will the change come? That's the
question.
>> The change must come from the from the
patients themselves.
>> The the change must come from the
population of people that suffer the
greatest from this. It's not going to
come, I don't think, from the top
medical schools or the pharmaceutical
industry because they have too much
they're comfortable. They're very
comfortable in their current status.
>> And I I get calls from dozens and dozens
of physicians who actually get cancer
and they're stage four. They're they're
coming to me to get information on how
to manage their cancer because radiation
and chemo and surgical mutilations, they
they certainly can help some people. But
even if you survive that, you pay a
significant price, right? Your body has
been poisoned and and irradiated and
mutilated and your quality of life is
sometimes not always optimal after
surviving uh toxic treatments. Whereas
metabolic therapy can eliminate a lot of
that. And the other thing you have to
realize, we don't throw out all the uh
standards of care. We're finding that
these chemicals, these ke uh
chemotherapies, maybe even
imunotherapies and radiation therapy
have a much greater therapeutic benefit
when when the patient is in nutritional
ketosis. So even getting the patient
into not only will the patient start
killing their tumor cells, they'll be
much more responsive to the chemicals
and treatments of the standard of care.
So it's going to be a a hybrid
transformation as we move from from from
an incorrect theory to the correct
theory of what the disorder actually is.
>> So what does that look like? A hybrid
treatment. So we combine the drugs that
target glutamine and then a ketogenic
therapy which eliminates glucose.
>> Yeah. Yeah. What we do is we bring
patients in and we do a a comprehensive
blood work. We find out how how close or
far they are from optimal physiological
state. what we call optimal metabolic
state. We have to bring that patient
back into some level of metabolic
homeostasis. And once they're in this
metabolic and that could be eating zero
carb diets for a week or two, you can
start to see the the glucose go down,
the ketones go up, the patient generally
gets healthier. Then you bring in either
st me standards of care, some chemicals
that are currently being used, or you
can use small dose of radiation
depending on the type of tumor that it
is. Everything responds better when the
patient is in nutritional ketosis. And
then you can bring in the glutamine
targeting drugs and that has to be
known. We we dosage timing and
scheduling have to be optimized. And
that's what we're do doing here in my
lab is we're optimizing dosage, timing,
and scheduling for the different diet
drug combos, which will eventually be
the standard of care. Patients are going
to have to know this. There's no pill
that will be able to do what metabolic
therapy can do, but a pill can work
remarkably well with metabolic therapy.
So, it has to be a combination because
don't forget it took a long time for
that person to go from a state of health
to ill health and having cancer. So,
you're you to to to turn that whole
system around requires some effort on
the part of the patient. So the patients
themselves have to play a significant
role in in the transformation of their
body from ill health to health. So they
in order to have success, the patient
must play a significant role in this
process. They're no longer sitting there
as bystanders for being treated with
chemicals and radiation. With metabolic
therapy, a large part of the success
depends on the motivation of the
patient.
>> That's right. That's right. So there are
a lot of testimonials from countless
uh you know success stories and you you
already alluded to one. Any specific
success stories? Another success story
that come in mind that you might share
with us today.
>> Well, we have Maggie Jones who's writing
the cancer revolution docu documentary.
They're producing a a doc a professional
documentary. Brad Jones, the husband
Brad
>> is a professional movie maker in the
documentary field and they're collecting
uh dozens and dozens of of stage four
terminal cancer patients and having
every one of those stories told by th by
those patients and you know all of them
in one way or another lowered glucose
and elevated ketones. And then they did
a variety of other things with certain
supplements that work together, other
dietary things. So they're collecting
all of the all of these testimonials, if
you will, and anecdotes, and they'll and
and we have to have trained. You can't
start doing large clinical trials
without having a knowledgeable
practitioner running the trial. And so,
so right now, we're just collecting
person after person after person after
person. And they have brain cancer,
colon cancer, lung cancer, breast
cancer, pancreatic cancer. We've written
on that prostate cancer, bladder cancer,
melanomas, blood can the whole range of
blood cancers. We're we're we're seeing
the same overall outcome with a variety
of cancers because because all major
cancers have to rely on fermentation for
growth. So the same therapeutic strategy
is effective against all the major
cancers because all major cancers are
similar. They need fermentation for
growth and we and how do we know that? I
I published a major paper showing that
all major cancers have abnormalities in
the number structure and function of the
mitochondria. That means they all have
to ferment. Therefore, they're all
dependent on glucose and glutamine to
some extent. So, this then becomes a
clear strategy for moving the entire fe
field forward in the correct direction
because it's based on the correct theory
of what the nature of the disease is.
>> I mean, with this type of promise and
we're seeing a lot of results here, it's
not a war between science and cancer. I
think it's more of the medical community
accepting the shift away from
conventional toxic treatments towards
metabolic therapies. Would you agree?
It's it's I think it's it's it's more
more that than just cancer. I mean, if
if we're seeing a lot of great results
with individuals with cancer, even in
later stages of cancer, get, you know,
reversing or even,
you know, healing
from that. Isn't that the war is just if
they just accept a lot of people will be
saved? Like that's what I feel.
>> No, you're 100% correct.
>> So now here's an here here's a chore for
you. Go you're in Toronto. Okay. They
have a large cancer center in Toronto.
Why don't you go down and ask the guys
there how come you're not doing
metabolic therapy and you'll get there's
no evidence to support that. Well, did
they read the scientific literature
showing all the detailed experimental
experiments that we and others have done
to support that? No, they haven't read
it. Well, what makes you say that
there's no evidence to support it?
Because if it's if people will they say,
"Well, if it was really important, I
would have heard about it." Well, you
are hearing about it. You're doing
nothing about it. I mean, [laughter]
it's just I'm telling you about it.
>> Okay.
>> And well, I don't believe you. Okay. He
doesn't believe me. Well, did you read
the scientific evidence to support No, I
don't have time to read that. Okay. you
don't have time to read it. You don't
want to believe me because everybody
says it's a genetic disease. And and
they said, "Well, the whole the whole
hospital system would have to change."
Yes. And well, we can't do that because
we're [laughter]
every You'll always find we can't we
can't we can't. No, they're not familiar
with the scientific evidence. No, they
they they they never heard that glucose
drives disregulated cell growth. They
know, oh, no diet can help cancer. Just
take my radiation and chemo. And uh and
this is the way everybody does. And they
just walk like sheep. Dozens and dozens
of folks walking like sheep into these
institutions. Yes, a lot of them
survive. Of course, a lot of them die.
In the United States, we have over se
almost 1700 people a day dying from
cancer. That's 70 people an hour. It's a
worldwide epidemic of cancer. And
everybody keeps radiation and chemo and
surgical mutilation. Radiation, chemo,
surgical mutilation. And they do
imunotherapies all based on the sematic
mutation theory. And if the imuno if the
if the patient doesn't have the right
epitope on the surface of the tumor
cell, some of those imunotherapies now
rip out your kidneys and liver and you
die a horrific death from adverse
effects from the imunotherapy. And they
tell us that they're not hiding this.
When you see the commercials, they spend
more time telling you how how the
therapy will kill you rather than how
it's going to help you. I mean, they're
not hiding it. We're all listening. And
then when they get cancer, they all run
down and run down take the same stuff.
And it's just like because I mean so you
tell me what's going on with this
picture. [laughter]
>> I mean all I want to do is to you know
help that one person and we talked about
this and I mean if someone is listening
right now who wants to learn more about
this Dr. Thomas Freed where can they go
and get more information about this?
>> A lot of our papers are are open access.
So you just put my name in and say what
did he publish? Give me publications and
you can read it yourself. So the press
pulse metabolic anybody who has a
computer and Google can get the papers
that I've published and then they read
them. Oh wow. This is really
interesting. How come nobody's talking
about this [laughter]
and then and it's cited a lot too. I
it's because the system is so entrenched
and so do dogmatic and comfortable in in
what they do. It's very hard to change
the attitudes and the understanding. I
mean, if the NIH is telling us that
cancer is a genetic disease, and if you
look, it says 100 different diseases.
Yeah. They have 100 different cancers,
all with a different name, but all
requiring fermentation to grow. All
those cancers need glucose and
glutamine. I don't care what you call
them. It's a blood cancer, colon cancer,
bladder cancer, five different kinds of
brain cancers. They all ferment. How do
I know that? because we did all the
studies. We looked at all the evidence
in the literature and put it all
together in these big papers. And so if
you don't read the papers and you and
you can't understand what I'm saying,
then the status quo will persist. It's
only when the people get outraged and
they start beating the doors down and
saying, "I want metabolic therapy." And
if you can't give it to us, and we're
writing a treatment protocol as we
speak, a really detailed treatment
protocol for cancer. We have to publish
that. So we're going to start up setting
up clinics. We're going to start
training certifying physicians to be
certified as a metab as a person who can
deliver metabolic therapy. So they've
been trained and and and shown what to
do and how to do it. And now they can go
into the into the communities and set up
clinics treating cancer patients with
metabolic therapy. So a lot of the parts
to do this are not in place.
>> We don't have trained physicians to do
this. A lot of the physicians don't want
to be trained. They want to know about
it. But once you get certified, then you
can open up clinics and you can start
treating p patients the correct way.
>> But how do we help someone now? Someone
with cancer now. How do we help them
now?
>> Well, well, they they then the a lot of
the burden falls on them and and I I
give kits out to the folks that just has
educational information as I I'm not a
physician. I cannot tell anybody what to
do or how to do it, but I can only give
them educational material with some
names of people and then they then they
can go like Yeah. and and and they and
they're and all I ask them to do is make
donations to the Boston College Cancer
Fund on my website or or to Travis
Kristofferson's foundation because all
of our research is supported by
philanthropy and private foundations.
And the more funds that we get, we the
more people we can train, the more
experiments we can do to convince the
skeptics that cancer is primarily a
mitochondrial metabolic disease. So the
evidence, the truth just has to build
and build and build and build. So you
work on one side, you work the science
out, on the other side you get, as you
called them, anecdote after anecdote,
fluke after fluke after fluke after
anecdote after anecdote. And it works on
dogs too. It's unbelievable. The dog ca
dogs are are riddled with cancer and we
have a big paper on on removal of a mass
a mass cell tumor on the face of a
pitbull and that's published in in open
access journal. So why should the dogs
be managed and not people? So you know
it's it's it's the whole the whole thing
here. It's a it's a work it's a it's a
momentum that's growing and growing and
growing and eventually will become the
standard of care. There's no question
about it because it's based on the
correct theory of what the nature of the
disease is. And when you have the right
theory, just like the heavens, we now we
have telescopes revolving around the
earth a million miles. The web telescope
that would have not been possible if we
considered the earth as the center of
the solar system. It only became clear
when the earth was another planet
revolving around the sun and then the
advance in astronomy and and these kinds
of fields advance. Same thing will
happen in the cancer field and in the
chronic disease field. Just a matter of
time. I have no doubt about it. It's
just that the [laughter] just need to
work.
>> Yeah. the policy makers just have to
have to get old, right? So the new comes
in.
>> Well, yeah, but you know, it's tragic
about that. What I feel about that, and
that's what Max Planck said. You're you
can't move a new field theory forward
until the the guys supporting the old
theory die off.
>> But right now, we're sacrificing 1,700
people a day
>> for their for their resistance. I mean,
it's not it's not, you know, nobody
needed to die if you didn't if you
didn't if you thought the sun or the
earth was the sun. So it wasn't didn't
>> Yeah. So So anyway, this is the people
want to live. They're going to have to
recognize that the cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disorder and a
lot of the treatment rests on their
shoulder, but they have to have a
practice. They have to have certified
practitioners that can help and guide
them.
>> And right now we get you go down and
that's one of the things that's so
tragic. I tell all these folks then they
go down to their all excited to go down
to their local oncologist and they get
slapped down. They'd said there's no
evidence to support any of this
metabolic stuff. Diets don't work. You
know, fasting should never be done. I
mean, what are they? And that's only
because they lack knowledge. It's not
because they're bad people.
>> They just don't know. Agree. Once they
know, then they become totally
embarrassed and they say, "Oh, how the
hell did we not know this?" Yeah.
>> Well, I'm telling you now, you should
know it. And the papers are there,
published, and you can read them.
>> Absolutely. you know if if I don't do
another interview I I will be happy with
this interview I'm done. I mean there I
mean cancer again is such a devastating
word that you know we talk about how the
debts per year that we see is is such a
it's scary for people that's why I
really want to get to help these people
that are struggling know somebody that's
struggling you know point them in the
right direction. Where can people find
you? Maybe connect with you, follow you,
and follow the research. How how can
they connect with you?
>> Well, I think we've done a lot of
YouTube videos for sure.
>> Um, so people are starting to hear about
it. And again, they they they Instagram,
you know, there's an Instagram account.
One of my students, I've got students
now doing podcasts in my they're they're
actually doing some nice podcasts. You
know, it's a it's a work in progress.
We're training right now as we speak.
There's a big conference going on in in
Switzerland. Josephine Arborino is is
starting to set up a place to train
train clinicians. It's a happening
event. It's going to be very exciting.
But I think right now you can see all
the work we've done on open access. uh
just go to look at all my publications
on open access become familiar with the
evidence and then start putting pressure
on the health care uh providers to say
why are we not doing metabolic therapy
and supporting the research that we do
and it will eventually benefit all of
human all mankind everybody every
there's no country that has no cancer
now there are some actually primitive
people living according to their
traditional ways cancer is much less
>> they're not they're not it's diet and
lifestyle Yeah,
>> once you realize that that our we're not
getting enough exercise, we're under
stress, we're eating poor highly
processed foods, all of these impact
negatively on the mitochondria in some
organ in some tissue leading to
disregulated cell growth or obesity or
type two diabetes or cardiovascular
disease or hypertension or high blood
all of these things, Alzheimer's
disease. So again, we put them all into
the chronic disease and you're 100%
correct. Cancer is a frightening disease
only because to treat it you have to be
poisoned or radiated and mutilated and
people don't want that. They want to
know that there's another way that we
can manage this without having to suffer
like that and they and if that doesn't
kill you eventually the cancer will kill
you. But 50% of the people are dying
from the treatments rather than from the
disease. It's a [laughter] terrible
tragedy. Yeah. So people have to know
that things can get a lot better once
they understand that can the new the new
theory that cancer is a mitochondrial
metabolic disorder. you know, even
though this podcast, this podcast
recording is there's a lot of passion
here because we we believe that we have
to change, you know, the system, right?
But there's a this episode's offering a
lot of hope for a lot of people. And I I
feel like, you know, if we can just help
that one person, you know, spread that
word, and we're doing the same. We're
spread that word, you know, support Dr.
Thomas Seaff Freed's Foundation and
we'll link everything down in the
description box below so you guys can
support Dr. Seaff Freed's.
>> Also, there's one you there's one more
thing. I I wrote only one book. I never
wrote any of those summaries. People
should need to know that some of those
are pirated things. They say I wrote
them. I did not write them. So, you have
to realize the book that you mentioned
was the only book. It's uh it's it's not
cheap. It's not $19 or any of this
stuff. I feel really bad when people
say, "Oh, I got your re I got your
summary and I didn't it was full of
misspellings and it didn't wasn't
clear." I didn't write that.
>> I wrote only one book and people should
know that because they're all buying
these little review things that aren't
that I that are not written in and the
quality of writing that I have. Yeah.
>> So, it's kind of just it's kind of just
put together. So, yeah. So, this is
Yeah, we're working on this and we're
not going to go away anytime soon and
we're going to push it until the until
the system changes.
>> Yeah. Obviously, I'll do the same. We'll
link the book down in the description
box below so you guys can can check it
out by by your book. Cancer is a
metabolic disease. Is that right? Let me
see.
>> Is cancer as a as as a metabolic on the
origin. Cancer is a metabolic disease.
Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. We'll link it
down box below. So guys, get that book.
>> John Wy John Wy Press.
>> Get that copy. Get that copy. Well,
thank you so much Dr. Thomas C. free for
coming on and sharing your story and
sharing your knowledge here with us
today. I I believe that we are going to
help that one person, right? And if you
have a chance to check out uh Dr. Thomas
Euy's book, go ahead and check it out.
Get your get your own copy, learn about
the metabolic disease, you know,
mechanism, you know, educate yourself
about it. You know, there's nothing
better than, you know, getting some more
information about this and so you can
empower yourself with that knowledge.
Dr. Thomas Seafrey, thank you so much.
>> Oh, thank you very much. Nice to be
here.
>> Awesome. Thank you. Bye-bye.